docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. Proteotyping documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Apr  6 13:47:39 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

|name| |version|
========================
.. image:: img/landing.*
    :alt: |name| overview; input blast8, output estimated taxonomic composition
        and detected antibiotic resistance proteins.
    :align: center

|name| uses peptides generated by mass spectrometry proteomics to:

* identify and estimate the taxonomic composition of a microbial sample.
* detect expressed antibiotic resistance proteins.
 
|name| does not require a priori information about the contents of a sample and
is suitable for analysis of both pure cultures, mixed samples, and clinical
samples.

Read :doc:`introduction` for more details on how it works. If you prefer to
throw yourself head-first into |name| without first knowing the details of how
it works, checkout :doc:`installation`!


About
*****
:Authors: Fredrik Boulund, 
:Contact: fredrik.boulund@chalmers.se
:License: |license|

This is the documentation for |name| version |release|, last updated |today|.  
The documentation is available online at

http://somepage.readthedocs.org

|name| is published as open-source under the |license| license and you are
welcome to look at, suggest improvements, or download and improve/contribute to
the code at the project's Bitbucket_ page.

.. _Bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org/chalmersmathbioinformatics/proteotyping

.. _`citing`:

Citing |name|
*************
If you find |name| useful, please cite us!
The method is described in the following paper:

Boulund et al. In preparation.
Title tbd. 
Journal tbd.
DOI: tbd


Documentation
*************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   introduction
   installation
   database_preparation
   running
   output


Contributing
************
If you want to contribute to the development of |name|, please refer to the
`CONTRIBUTING` document in the root of the `Bitbucket repository`_. 

.. _Bitbucket repository: https://bitbucket.org/chalmersmathbioinformatics/proteotyping




Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Improved documentation. Renamed database_preparation.rst to preparing_databases.rst

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. Proteotyping documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Apr  6 13:47:39 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

|name| |version|
========================
.. image:: img/landing.*
    :alt: |name| overview; input blast8, output estimated taxonomic composition
        and detected antibiotic resistance proteins.
    :align: center

|name| uses peptides generated by mass spectrometry proteomics to:

* identify and estimate the taxonomic composition of a microbial sample.
* detect expressed antibiotic resistance proteins.
 
|name| does not require a priori information about the contents of a sample and
is suitable for analysis of both pure cultures, mixed samples, and clinical
samples.

Read :doc:`introduction` for more details on how it works. If you prefer to
throw yourself head-first into |name| without first knowing the details of how
it works, check out :doc:`installation` right away to get started!


About
*****
:Authors: Fredrik Boulund, 
:Contact: fredrik.boulund@chalmers.se
:License: |license|

This is the documentation for |name| version |release|, last updated |today|.  
The documentation is available online at

http://somepage.readthedocs.org

|name| is published as open-source under the |license| license and you are
welcome to look at, suggest improvements, or download and improve/contribute to
the code at the project's Bitbucket_ page.

.. _Bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org/chalmersmathbioinformatics/proteotyping

.. _`citing`:

Citing |name|
*************
If you find |name| useful, please cite us!
The method is described in the following paper:

Boulund et al. In preparation.
Title tbd. 
Journal tbd.
DOI: tbd


Documentation
*************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   introduction
   installation
   preparing_databases
   running
   output


Contributing
************
If you want to contribute to the development of |name|, please refer to the
`CONTRIBUTING` document in the root of the `Bitbucket repository`_. 

.. _Bitbucket repository: https://bitbucket.org/chalmersmathbioinformatics/proteotyping




Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
